- Date: 13/07/24
- Title: Aligning Blended Execution Networks
- Links: https://x.com/fluentxyz/status/1800899635197915446

---

**Dino:**  
01:38  
Alright, let's see. Third time's the charm. For people in the audience, you probably didn't see the first two rugs, but this app is horrible. Um, let's see if we can get this straight. Can you guys hear me? Nice.

**Dino:**  
02:01  
And welcome everybody.

**Dino:**  
02:14  
Just give it a minute or so to make sure the tech kinks are worked out. And then we'll get started.

**Dino:**  
03:05  
Okay, it looks like we're getting partially rugged this time, so I don't think RJ is able to hear us. So give us another minute or two. He's gonna hop out and come back in, then we'll get started.

**Dino:**  
03:37  
Okay. R.J. actually just pinged me and said to get started. So let's do that. If everybody else can hear me okay, feel free to throw some emojis just so I know. But I will start. So first off, thanks everyone for joining. You know, everyone in the audience, but also to our guests from AlignLayer. So maybe we can not spend too much time.

**Dino:**  
04:05  
But can go through some introductions. Just maybe we can go quickly around Robin to say a bit about ourselves and our projects for those who aren't familiar. So real quick, I'm Dino, one of the co-founders of Fluent and CEO Fluent Labs. We're building the first Blended Execution Network. So a unified L2 that supports EVM, WASM, and SVM apps in one state machine.

**Dino:**  
04:33  
So all the apps can directly call each other. The dev experience is really good. No kind of bridging experience. You don't feel like you're bridging between two different networks. It feels like one network. And users can just tap into all these apps from the EVM wallet. So quick TLDR on us. And I'll pass it over to, I guess, Diego if you want to kick this off. And RJ can jump in. Or I don't know if he's on the aligned main. But go for it.

**Diego:**  
05:02  
OK, thanks a lot for having us here. I am Diego and I am currently the head of research at Align Layer, at Align, sorry. And before that, I was head of research at Lambda class. I've been working with CK Technologies for a while. Before that, I studied like chemical engineering, so I am kind of an outsider. And the idea with Align Layer is that we know that

**Diego:**  
05:31  
writing through all applications is going to become easier and easier, but there is still like a very high barrier of entry, which is the verification cost and the verification latency and also throughput. That's why we decided to build Align, which is a CK verification layer that tries to provide very high throughput and at the same time with low latency and low costs.

**Diego:**  
06:01  
So that's more or less who we are. I don't know if RJ can talk now, but if not, we can keep on.

**RJ:**  
Yes, now it seems to be working the micros of this account. So thank you, Dino and Florentin, for having us. I'm RJ, one of the founders of Align. As you described, we're building a CK verification layer with the objective of making CK verification extremely fast and cheap so everyone can use it.

**RJ:**  
06:32  
And yes, before that, I worked in Lambda class, and I started building actually a bridge. And because of a few problems we had, we ended up building a line, and we can dive into more of that, if you guys want, later. Thank you for having us.

**Dino:**  
So I was actually thinking we started off with that, right? Just the inception of the project. So I think a lot of people have probably been aware of Lambda class, you just referred to it as well. And so how...

**Dino:**  
07:00  
What was the start of this project? For people who are, actually maybe for people in our audience who are like, might've heard the name Lambda, but less familiar with exactly what you guys do, how did this whole thing come to be? You guys worked with a bunch of ZK, and you ran into this problem that you guys decided to spin out and solve, or can you kind of tell me the story behind it?

**RJ:**  
Yeah, of course. So, the first thing to take into account is Lambda Class is an engineering company.

**RJ:**  
07:29  
That has been working in cryptography and seniorized proofs for over two years, maybe free now, Dio can correct me, and work across many of the L2s and many of the CK blockchains that exist in the space. So the company itself has a very good picture of the different proofing systems, the different constraints and problems every single one of these teams has regarding developing these proof systems and actually integrating them into Ethereum or other systems.

**RJ:**  
07:59  
I decided to spin off from Lambda class in the Cier and try to build a CK bridge. And I found that trying to use this tech that we believe is already here and it's incredible and we can start using it now, has a lot of problems, not on the proving side, but actually trying to use it with Ethereum on chain when you need to verify stuff. So by encountering this problem, we realized many of the other teams we know from the space have something similar. And we decided to...

**RJ:**  
08:27  
solve this issue by building a new infrastructure from scratch designed to offer fast and affordable verification for all proven systems. And this is the first way we started interacting with the problem and why we decided to go all in and try to offer Ethereum a fast ticket verification layer.

**Dino:**  
Yeah, a lot of people are clearly familiar with the challenges around ZK proving, but I feel like there's definitely education that can and you guys can be done and I definitely see you guys doing around the problems around verification. And we can get more into that in a bit. But I guess as a segue, maybe we can get oriented around the aligned.

**Dino:**  
09:17  
Layer product. So I understand this is an AVS on, and this is obviously for the audience, like, you know, if somebody's heard of AVS's, like, I understand this is an AVS on Eigenlayer. Like, what informed your decision to build it that way?

**Diego:**  
Well, we think that Eigenlayer offers unique advantages to build aligned, because if you wanted to build, for example, a CK verification layer from scratch,

**Diego:**  
09:46  
You need to get like the economic security and you have to put strap a new network. And by using Eigen layer, we can build some very cool stuff, especially our, what we call our fast mode, which relies heavily on, on the concept of risk taking. So that's why we, we chose to, to work with Ivan besides we are like clearly integrated in.

**Diego:**  
10:15  
in Ethereum. We believe Ethereum is where everybody wants to build things. It's where we have the liquidity and everything. It has an amazing community. So of course, it was kind of a natural choice to work on top of Eigen.

**RJ:**  
And something else to add is, if you want to build something like this as a complete new one, it's really difficult to actually build it and go really fast into the market to solve the problem. Because you need to create a good community of validators, launch the token before actually going to mainnet. You need to boost up a lot of liquidity and economic security. The beauty of Eigen is that we can use this directly from the, by risk taking directly from Ethereum, right?

**RJ:**  
11:05  
So that's one of the things we notice, and it allows us to build a system thinking outside of the block. So Aligin itself is not a blockchain. It's a system designed just to offer very fast and cheap verification. So that's why we were extremely attracted to work with them. And we believe their ecosystem is going to grow a lot.

**Dino:**  
You mentioned two different modes, or at least this is what I think I heard, so tell me if I'm wrong. You said a fast mode. Are there multiple modes of the product?

**Diego:**  
Yeah. The idea is that you can get verification in two different ways to get a cost-effective solution. So the most common proposal in the space is related to proof aggregation in general via proof recursion. That is to say...

**Diego:**  
12:00  
you generate a proof that you verified two or n proofs. And if you then verify that proof on chain, it is the same as verifying the n proofs on chain. The only thing is you pay the cost of verification just once. So in general, that is called the aggregation mode and aligned supports that mode, but it has the inconvenience of being

**Diego:**  
12:29  
of having higher latency and its throughput is a bit limited because first you have to generate these aggregated proofs and so you have to do a lot of proofing. So I think that Aligned's main advantage is also offering what we call the fast mode, which relies on the crypt economic security provided

 by Eigenlayer.

**Diego:**  
12:56  
So the idea of the fast mode roughly is people interact with what we call verifier task batchers. So they send the proofs they want to verify. This batcher creates a task in Ethereum by creating the Merkle route, containing all the information necessary for the proofs and all that, and post the data to some data service, okay? So...

**Diego:**  
13:25  
What we have are a set of operators from Ethereum, which we obtain from mistaken. And these operators see that they have a new task in Ethereum. So they download all the data and they run the verification. Each of them runs the verification code for each of these proofs, but they run like natively, not on top of DBM, nothing. They just use the...

**Diego:**  
13:54  
Rust code, for example, for the verifier. And if they see that the proofs are valid, they sign a message with the root of the batch and they send it to a signature aggregator. Okay, so the signature aggregator looks and finds that he gets signatures from the different operators. And if we reach a threshold, then this means that the proofs are valid and then sends them to

**Diego:**  
14:23  
the service manager, which is the smart contract we have in Ethereum, and updates the state of the batch to is verified. And then the user can query our smart contract to get the result of the verification. And the nice part of this is that you don't have to generate an aggregated proof. You just send your proof like you would do in Ethereum normally or in any other blockchain.

**Diego:**  
14:51  
and it's verified by these operators. And since these proofs are also very fast to verify, you can get a really high throughput. You can get maybe 1,000 proofs per second. Whereas if you come to think about it, Ethereum can process at most 120 proofs per block time. So that's roughly 10 proofs per second.

**Diego:**  
15:20  
So two orders of magnitude and more proofs.

**Dino:**  
1000 proofs per second, like 1000 songs in your pocket. Whoever thought of that, Bravo. That sounds really compelling. So yeah, it's interesting. The designs, I mean, like when you hear kind of like a new area of the modular stack, such as like proof, even proof verification, like people will be like, oh, it's just verifying proofs, but there's a whole design space, like what you're kind of shedding light on. And so I guess on that note,

**Dino:**  
15:54  
You mentioned the way I think about this is there's like a go to market advantage you guys have obviously using Eigen layer instead of bootstrapping a whole L1 and blockchain. There's the kind of like different modes that you mentioned tailored towards different use cases. Would you say those are the two main, I'll say differentiators or is there anything else you want to touch on?

**RJ:**  
Yes, I mean, the main differentiators is that the design we come up with is actually giving us the head start rate. We are actually the only CK verification layer that can achieve these numbers that Diego mentioned. We are the fastest one and the most affordable one. And we are the only one that offers the two modes as well. So what we want to do is actually give developers more options. So they are the ones who need to decide, OK, which one do I like the most? We don't need to put constraints on them. So.

**RJ:**  
16:44  
I will claim that we are the fastest one and also the one who is designed in specific to be future proof. For us, including new technology in an ecosystem that changes so fast is extremely important. So we already have some of the latest CK VMs like SP1 and we are about to include many of the other VMs that can include like ProvenRust and for example, of course, the work you guys are doing.

**RJ:**  
17:13  
So for us, integrating with people who are innovating in the execution layer is extremely important because what we're doing is lowering the value of entry for people who know more how to innovate in other parts of the stack. And I think that's one of the best things we are offering. Integrating and collaborating with others so we can make them go to the market faster. And we just focus on offering very cheap and fast verification.

**RJ:**  
17:42  
And then users are the ones who decide what they want to use. And the other thing is by being connected to Ethereum, by using it for restaking and also with a relation system, we're connected to the best place regarding liquidity and economic activity. And I think that's important for people that want to build applications.

**Dino:**  
When it comes to use cases, for the most part, what are you guys seeing? Is it like Ethereum L2s? Obviously, as you mentioned a couple of times, you guys are very closely tied to the, or closely aligned with the Ethereum ecosystem. That makes perfect sense, but are there, is that the most, for the most part, the use cases you guys are targeting, or do you see other use cases that have surprised you?

**RJ:**  
Yeah, at first I would say, of course, people trying to use CK rollups on top of Ethereum. But we actually have received a lot of really good feedback from people doing CK projects that are not rollups. So people looking to use CKTLS or people looking to use CK for cases we were not expecting that are outside of the common blockchain design space. But for now,

**RJ:**  
19:02  
I would say most people that are running secret rollups, they're really interested in this because if they already reduced their costs in data availability, right now, one of the biggest costs they have if they want to run something like this is very verification in itself. And the other one is breaching. That is one of the first use cases where this all started. We all started with, we were trying to build a bridge. We didn't have the right tools. And many people building these interoperability projects, they need something like a line.

**RJ:**  
19:32  
Those are, I think, one of the main use cases. And the other thing that for us is really important is we are extremely excited to see what people come up with regarding CK applications or provable applications now that we are making these extremely cheap and easy to use. So we believe we'll see a brand new wave of CK applications because we will make it extremely cheap. If it's so cheap and easy to use, why wouldn't it be the default for many use cases? That's where we will live in.

**Dino:**  
Yeah, no, that's exciting. Um, so when it's cheap enough, let's continue on that thread. Like if it's cheap enough and quick enough to verify ZK proofs, um, you know, that becomes the default. That makes perfect sense. Are there any, I'll say new behaviors that you, and it seems like you're starting ahead in this direction. Are there any like new behaviors enabled when verification costs are that much cheaper and faster and feel free to kind of like.

**Dino:**  
20:32  
Zoom out into the future a little bit and see like, how do you see this playing out? Like what's uniquely enabled?

**Diego:**  
Dio, I think you have, we were discussing actually a use case regarding this yesterday, regarding the multi-proof settings. I think that one is particularly interesting to mention.

**Diego:**  
Yeah, so for example, right now every roll-up is using just one proof system. They submit their proof to the L1. It gets verified and then you do things. But really, even though we...

**Diego:**  
21:10  
Try to have like the best practices, security audits and all that. Sometimes your proof system can contain or a bug, or maybe there is something that is very hard to find, maybe a tiny edge case. So of course, having like, instead of submitting just one proof, having two different proofs for the same computation that rely on different assumptions, for example.

**Diego:**  
21:39  
a start proof and KCG proof give you like perhaps an extra security because it's unlikely that you're going to have the same bug or the same type of attack is applicable to both proof systems. So if you have like very cheap verification and proving is getting faster, what you can do is then have the two proofs.

**Diego:**  
22:07  
And you just update once the two proofs are valid. And so that gives you like a reassurance on the proof system. Of course, then you have many applications to fight, for example, AI-generated content, and make sure that perhaps some image or something is the result of lawful modifications of an image, for example, like.

**Diego:**  
22:36  
cropping or enlarging the image. So I think that if verification costs are like super low and you also have like very high throughput and besides the cost of writing CK applications is going to be low, the barrier of entry is also low because now you could write in principle in.

**Diego:**  
23:05  
high level languages and get proven. I think that we will see like a new wave of things. It will be kind of the broadband or I don't know, YouTube for content generation. Before we had the TV, but YouTube, thanks to its network effects and all that, created a whole new market. So we think that if we do things right, we will create...

**Diego:**  
23:34  
a new market for these verifiable applications.

**Dino:**  
Awesome, yeah, I know that is exciting. And I feel like the whatever

 ideas we can like rough on here, I'm sure we'll be blown away by, you know, what people actually end up building. It always is kind of unleashed the creativity, like it will all be surprised. I think it'll be cool. I think everyone has a good intuition around when like the costs of proving and verifying like collapse, like cool things will happen.

**Dino:**  
24:11  
So we want to keep this, I know we want to keep this like within a within a half hour span. So maybe for the remaining time, we talk obviously about the integration, right? And so quickly from my perspective, from Fluent's perspective, we are very excited about this, just for those who might not be up to speed on the different components of Fluent, we have obviously this blended execution environment, this blended VM. We are building a both a layer two network on Ethereum.

**Dino:**  
24:40  
And also a framework for people to build other layer twos, layer threes, other just not even blockchains necessarily, just verifiable compute environments, whatever you want. And we want that framework to be very modular. We have, you know, we're in the process of integrating a line layer. So those chains, those flume based chains that get spun up.

**Dino:**  
25:05  
have access to this cheaper and faster settlement because from our perspective, that opens up a lot of new use cases that are not otherwise possible if those fluent-based chains that spin up have to deploy, have to post proofs to Ethereum directly. So I'm certainly very excited about this. I don't know, RJ and Diego, if you wanna kind of talk to the integration on your end.

**RJ:**  
From our perspective, we're also extremely excited. This is the type of integrations we want to see. People who are giving more options to developers integrating with us that our objective is to give more options to developers to access affordable verification. And this type of tech stacks that you were mentioning where anyone can launch their own, for example, roll-up or verifiable computer, this is something that we're extremely excited to see. Because.

**RJ:**  
26:04  
One of the things we want to see is anyone being able to actually launch these type of systems and verify them, because today the cost of operating these type of systems is extremely high and you need to raise a lot of money. You need to spend millions of dollars in operations for only verification, for example. And I would like to see people having options. So one day we can see, I don't know, a 20 year old launch an app chain from the house on a Sunday.

**RJ:**  
26:31  
and decide to run it and create a new game or create a new social application. And yes, this type of linear execution merged with new infrastructure and can have lower the cost. I think it's going to be really exciting to adopt a brand new generation for developers that were, they couldn't access this tech because of costs. And I think we will see thousands of rollups with different tech stacks using and trying to experiment with many.

**RJ:**  
27:00  
different infrastructures and execution. So these type of iterations are ideal for us. It shows exactly the power of this technology.

**Dino:**  
Yeah, there's like two sides of the coin. There's, um, like on our end, making it, uh, at least on like on the Wasm side, especially making it more like accessible for more developers to just take the languages that they know, take all the millions of libraries that are already available today and just kind of, um, spin up, uh, environments coupled with, um, even like, if you look further into the future of like, you know, you have a RAS provider who's basically just letting somebody spin up, just kind of.

**Dino:**  
27:42  
And essentially like a serverless experience, you know, somebody like you said, who's a 20 year old on a Sunday, I just write some code and, you know, TypeScript or whatever they already know. I'm kind of like mixing some building blocks from Solidity that they also didn't really have to code, but like together makes an innovative application. Um, deploys it over the wall. And if in the ZK part is just taken care of and it's cheap and they don't think about it, I think, yeah, we're, we'll be blown away by.

**Dino:**  
28:10  
by what happened, so also super excited. I guess just to, as we wrap up, what's the latest with you guys? Anything you wanna share around kind of current state of things, what's next, where people can find you, any call to actions?

**RJ:**  
Yeah, we are moving really fast. We are trying to integrate many of these new technologies within our tech stack. But actually, the basic whole question is stay tuned for another big announcement today. We have special things coming up not only for developers, but also for the community. So we're trying to move even faster than.

**RJ:**  
28:57  
the development and the pace we had before. And yes, stay tuned in particular also for ECC. We're going to have a very big hackathon that is in conjunction with Lambda class, there is the Lambda Hack Week, so everyone here is invited. And it's going to be a very nerdy hackathon, but that's what we like, and that's where people come up with great ideas and we learn. So if you're going to Brussels, don't miss it, and stay tuned today.

**RJ:**  
29:26  
probably during the night of European time, will now something pretty big.

**Dino:**  
Diego, have any closing thoughts before we wrap?

**Diego:**  
No, I think just that this is going to be pretty exciting. We are going to see an acceleration of CK power technologies. Yeah, hope to see you around in Brussels for FTC. It's going to be super fun. Well, stay tuned for RJ's announcement.

**Dino:**  
Yeah, you and me intrigued now. When is that coming out later today?

**RJ:**  
Yeah, in a couple of hours.

**Dino:**  
Oh, OK. All right, I will stay tuned too. All right, everyone, we'll wrap up now. Thank you all so much. Thank you to both RJ and Diego and the Align team for setting this up and everybody in the audience for tuning in. So thanks, guys.

**RJ:**  
Thank you very much, Dino.

**Diego:**  
Thanks. We really enjoyed it.

--- 
